# VIM
Config stored in `~/.vimrc`

# Modes
`i`: normal -> insert
`esc`: insert -> normal   (tip: rebind to capslock)
`r`: replace
`v`/`S-V`/`C-V`: selection (visual / line / block)
`:`: command-line

## Basics
Change the startup config to include line numbers.. see lec notes

To control VIM, use `:` to go into command line mode.
e.g. to quit, `:quit` or `:q`

`:w`: writing file
`:help :w`: getting help on commands, e.g. write

### Normal Mode

#### Movement Commands

Navigate cursor using `hjkl` as L,D,U,R
Skip words using `w` and `b` to go fwd/backward to start of word
Go to end of word using `e`.
`%`: Go to matching parenthesis
`0` and `$`: Start/end of line
`^`: First non empty char on line
`C-U` / `C-D`: Scroll up / down
`G` / `gg` : End / beginning of file
`L`/`M`/`H`: Low middle high line on window
`f`+`o`: find rthe first occurance of (e.g.) the character 'o'. `F`+`o` finds the previous. 
`t`+`o`: As with `f` except lands one character before the char of interest.
`/[word]`: find a word/regexp. Hit enter, then go to next word using `n`

#### Editing Commands
`.`: repeat the last editing command (including whole inserts)
`a`: append mode
`o`: Inserts a line below, places cursor, and enters insert
`O`: Inserts mode above
`d`+`[movement-key]`: deletes a word/line/char as per the movement key
`c`+`[movement-key]`: enters insert mode, removes the portion of word

Doubling up commands e.g. `dd` performs it over the entire line. So `dd` deletes the entire line.

`x`: delete char
`r`+`[char]`: replace character with char
`u`: undo (note this undoes the last operation, if insert mode was used previously, it would undo all characters inserted in that session)
`C-R`: redo
`y` / `p`: copy /paste (yank)
`v`/`V`/`C-V`: VISUAL MODE (char / line / block mode). Select text with movement keys then e.g. `y`ank it, places back into normal mode when this is done.  

##### Counts
Can repeat commands by using a number before, e.g `8j` moves cursor down 8 places. `4dw` deletes 4 words

##### `a` and `i` Modifier Commands
We could replace words inside square brackets by `ci[` 
We could remove whole brackets by `ca(` ('around')
Likewise for delete.
This works for any paired groups e.g. ""

## Buffers, tabs, windows
`:sp`: split window (`:q` to exit each window)



